Problem Formulation and Significance
How does the publisher of a console and the price of a console affect a console’s sales? Which publisher/s have the most console sales, and does this reflect on a publisher's popularity among consumers? What other factors are present in the data that have a major influence on console sales? I will answer these questions utilizing multi-linear regression, as I have multiple predictors present. I can find which predictors matter in finding my answers by using the Lasso shrinkage method, which will hopefully reduce some coefficients to 0 so I know which predictors I should and shouldn’t include. Answering these research questions is important for Game Design and Development because identifying the factors that influence how much a console is purchased will help those in the gaming industry understand what factors matter, and even why. Publishers who make good or poor decisions, business wise or in relations with their consumers, may see an increase or reduction in console sales. This can be reflected in the findings, i.e. (making up a scenario) a publisher released a console in 2000 that sold for $300, but it flopped because of a PR screwup at the time. What can also be found is which publishers are dominating the market, which is important to understand because this can reflect on their popularity among consumers. If a publisher is having amazing console sales, what did they do that really grabbed consumers attention and made them want to buy it? Understanding which publishers are popular, and then delving into the decisions they made can help future publishers find success by understanding what to do right. Of course, this is not directly reflected in the data, but we can still get a general understanding of who was popular, and then delving into why they were popular. The dataset is 42 rows by 8 columns wide. The numerical predictors include Time Period (period of time consoles were sold), Year of Release, Original Price, and 2022 Price (Adjusted for Inflation). The categorical predictors include Generation (First, Second, Third, etc.), Primary consoles (Console name and publisher), and Game Media (game cartridge, disk, digital, etc). The dependent variable is Total Systems Sold. This dataset is suitable because it contains a fair amount of predictors that may influence my y heavily or not at all. It’s important to determine which predictors are relevant to answer my research question.

Exploratory Data Analysis
This section will contain how I summarize my features, handle the data, and all appropriate visualizations needed to explain any patterns or trends among my data. I suspect that the features that will have the most influence on my Y among my data are the 2022 Price (Adjusted for Inflation) and the Primary consoles columns. I do strongly believe that these two columns will not be the only relevant columns however. These findings will end up here. I will also most likely include my code for the shrinkage of coefficients using Lasso here, rather than section 3.

Model Selection, Application, and Evaluation
The model I will be using is a Multiple Linear Regression model. I have multiple predictors which are going to be used to find Y, the Total Systems Sold. Using multiple linear regression will also help find relationships between the predictors, which can narrow down what truly determines the outcome of Y. Simple linear regression wouldn’t perform well because there are multiple predictors, unless shrinkage somehow determines that only one predictor is relevant for finding Y. Classification wouldn’t make sense because I’m trying to predict a number, not determine a category (i.e. console sales greater than 1 million or less than 1 million). From here, there would be my multiple linear regression model and the code for it. Model performance evaluation will be present here.

Results, Conclusions, and Real World Implications. 
I would have all the relevant results presented in a clear manner. I’ll explain those results, what they mean and how they relate to my research questions, and try to have the results be as easily interpretable as possible. As for how the project will develop my skills and prepare me for the workforce, the hope is that by the end of my project I will have grown not just as someone who can analyze data and interpret results of a model, but as a programmer. Programming skill is crucial in Game Design and Development, and I’m hoping the project will strengthen and grow my current skills. Seeing as AI is in the picture, not only must I compete with that but also other programmers. The fact is people will use AI for programming, and it will raise the floor for those trying to enter the workforce. It will “raise” the average, so I have to try and be better than that and stand out. Admittedly I don’t think I’m great at programming, so I’m a little worried. But if I can grow my skills and become better before I leave school and enter the workforce then I think I’ll be okay. This class and this project does also open up opportunities to analyze data for game companies/publishers, which I think is a little interesting.
 

